the easiest way to make a wordpress blog
seo friendly believe it or not wordpress
is pretty as your friendly out of the
box if you want to make it more seo
friendly you just have to use plugins
like yoast seo or all in one but you
already know that here's what no one
tells you the main reason most blogs
aren't seo friendly are for two reasons
and you can't solve these issues through
plugins the first reason is you have too
much content on the same topic see when
you blog over time you'll have writer's
block or you have forgotten what you've
written on before
that can cause you to write on the same
topic over and over again accidentally
for example i may have written a post in
the past called the beginner's guide to
seo and then a year later write a post
on how to get started with seo and then
six months later i may write a post
called seven seo tips for beginners
although each of those posts are
different a lot of times google will see
them as roughly the same thing because
they're all about seo for beginners and
that can cause confusion with search
engines and google won't know which term
or which post to more so rank for terms
like seo for beginners so what you'll
want to do is combine the posts that are
all around similar keywords and put them
into one amazing post
this will increase your overall rankings
and confuse search engines less and the
key with this is when you have that
issue go to google analytics see which
of the pages
is the most popular and combine the
other pages into the most popular one
and then do 301 redirects and make sure
you adjust the internal links that have
gone to the old post and update them to
go to the new post
the second reason your wordpress blog
isn't as search engine friendly is
because your content is old and outdated
did you know that wikipedia is the
seventh most popular site in the world
according to similar web
do you know how they pull that off well
their content is continually updated
people keep updating wikipedia on a
daily basis
heck some of their most popular pages
are even also updated on a daily basis
and some content pieces especially when
there's new news get updated multiple
times within the hour
it's super effective with most blogs
people write content they never update
them we find this out with our agency np
digital when we talk to clients 98 of
our clients that work with us before
they even started
never update their old content now of
course once they start working with us
we change that and we start updating
their old content you want to do this at
least once a year
ideally more than that and this is an
easy way to start generating more
traffic
and you're probably wondering neil what
old post do i update do i need to update
them by a law a little
well the easiest way to figure out what
posts need updating first is to look at
google search console and you can see
what pages have dropped in traffic over
time those are the ones that need
updating first
now
when you update them you want to look at
what are the other competing web pages
and blogs that rank above me for the
terms that i lost rankings for google
them look at their pages and see how you
can make yours better
now the two above reasons aren't hard to
fix they just take time
but the time aspect is why most blogs
aren't seo friendly they prefer a quick
plug-in to fix their problems but not
all plugins can fix everything sometimes
you just need a little bit of human
capital so put in the time and effort
and your blog will be more seo friendly
or if you want my team to just do this
for you go check out npdigital.com
where we can handle all your seo needs
for you if you enjoyed this video like
it share it subscribe to the channel if
you have any questions leave a comment
below i'm here to help